The Joe Rogan experience.
Do do you think that first of all, we,
we had to do something to stop the spread of COVID-19.
Do you.
Agree? Yes, I agree. But hold on, we haven't have to bail anybody out.
We have a problem at the deal. You have to deal with our issues. Peter,
we have a.
Problem listening to each other.
Let me explain it to the people that are listening. We're on Skype.
And unfortunately, when you talk and I talk,
we can't kind of hear each other and you're not wearing headphones.
So it's weird.
I got an earpiece. Okay.
Okay. But there's a little bit of a delay. So just let me it's.
This is one of the reasons why I stress it so much better to do these things in
person. And I understand that it's impossible for you to do that right now,
when you have a situation like COVID-19 and these medical experts
say, Hey, we've got to do something. We've got to shut down.
Most of what we do, we've got to shut down a lot of businesses.
We've got to shut down schools and make things remotely.
There's going to be a situation where there's going to be a lot of people that
are not going to be able to work, but we want to keep these businesses alive.
This is a very unique situation,
and this is not like any situation we've ever faced in my lifetime.
What do you think could have been done?
That would have been a better solution than what the government did in terms of
bailouts, in terms of telling people to stay home? Like what could have been.
Done? Yeah. Well, first of all,
you have to remember that the government doesn't have any money, right?
The government only has money. It tastes for the people one way or another,
right? Grover Cleveland, who was a president in the late 19th century,
he was quoted. He had a good quote. He said,
while the people must support the government,
the government should never support the people. And so I agree.
Let's say we have to shut down the economy temporarily and people should
have enough savings to weather.
The storm businesses should have enough savings to weather.
The storm like they did in 1940 average,
Americans had lots of money in the bank. They weren't loaded up with debt.
They didn't have credit card debt. They didn't have student loans.
They didn't have car loans. They weren't,
they were solving even after a great depression, they were solving.
We lived in a bubble economy. Everybody was paycheck to paycheck.
Nobody had anything, businesses couldn't survive.
If their revenue stopped workers, couldn't pay their rent.
If they didn't get their salary, that's not right. That's,
that's part of the bubble, right?
So the fact that we were so ill prepared for a rainy day is because we had no
rainy day fund. We should have been able to deal with this on our own.
Right now, we're not getting a freebie from the government.
We're governed as Peter.
We're at now. We,
we basically locked down somewhere around March
we're we're four and a half months in or four months in now that's a long
rainy day. Four months is a third of a year.
There's very few human beings that have enough money to last four
months. I'm sure you do. And I do. But most folks out there listening,
don't have enough money to live and feed their families and pay their mortgage
or pay their rent and pay their car payments for four months.
That's a long time.
Right?
But they're going to end up suffering much more in a year or two
or three as a result of the massive inflation that has been unleashed
to finance all the bailouts and the stimulus. You agree that it's.
A good idea to do something, just to keep everyone alive,
just to keep businesses alive, just to keep people in their homes,
just to keep well.
First of all, first of all,
a lot of the businesses should have failed even before. I mean,
the fed has been keeping a lot of businesses, afloat.
They should have failed years ago, Don let's talk.
Maybe COVID would have been the final nail in their coffins.
And now they've got another lifeline, but these businesses are damaging.
The economy,
see businesses that are not profitable in a free market should shut down because
they're squandering pause.
You let's talk about my business. I'm in the business of comedy.
Comedy clubs are suffering terribly right now because it's very few states that
are allowing people to go out, wear masks, socially distance,
and go to comedy clubs. LA is not allowing any of that.
And they haven't since March the comedy store,
which is my home has been shut down. Since March,
all these clubs have been shut down all across the country through no fault of
their own.
It doesn't, but it does not mind that it's not their fault.
I understand that reality, but it's not like they've done anything wrong.
It's the state of California.
If the state of California is going to order businesses shut down.
And then the state of California wants to provide some kind of economic loop
relief, let California do it.
And let tack California impose higher taxes on whoever they think should fund
it.
We can't just use the federal reserve as a piggy bank that the federal reserve
cure is going to do more damage than the coronavirus disease.
And I think if the states knew that they would have to bear the economic
consequences of their own decision-making,
they would do a better cost benefit analysis on what they shut down and how they
do it. Right? Right. Now, every state is like, oh, let's shut everything down.
And the federal government's going to bail everybody out.
So we don't care if we put people out of work,
because they're going to get these enhanced benefits from the U S government.
Oh,
we don't care if we shut down businesses because they're going to get these PPP
grants from the government. But if the federal government let every state know,
look, you make a decision. This,
you handle this the way you want and you pay for it, right?
So you do a cost benefit analysis because thinking that everything is free,
that is the problem. We are doing so much damage to the economy. People,
no idea. We are going to get such a massive economic collapse,
far worse than what I thought was coming. You know,
when I did your show last few times, this is going to be much worse.
We are compounding the mistakes of the past with much bigger mistakes. I mean,
if you think it's bad now with the civil unrest,
it's going to get a lot worse when there's nothing.
There's no food when we run out of stuff. Can I pause.
You? Yeah. Last time you were on,
you were predicting the bubble of commercial real estate
and a lot of other issues. What,
what do you think is different about that situation now and how,
how much does that compound, what we're dealing with currently?
Well, obviously the Corona virus has made
the problem worse for commercial real estate. I mean,
commercial real estate is going to get killed for so many reasons,
but it was in trouble I think before COVID, but COVID again,
just accelerated the process, but obviously, uh, if you are a retailer,
you know, no one's coming into your store, your restaurant, if you're,
if you've got a gym, if you've got a movie theater,
so you're not collecting any rent, so you want to default.
And so now your landlord's not getting paid and he might have a mortgage.
And now he can't pay because he's not getting rent.
You've got all these office buildings where a lot of offices now,
like my company, almost all my people are working from home now. I mean,
I've got some people that come into the office,
but I got a lot of people working from home.
And so a lot of companies are thinking, Hey,
I don't need all this commercial space.
I don't need as big an office anymore because more of my people are working from
home. So now you have pressure on the rent. And so that was already happening.
You know, you had, we worked that blew up and they had, you know, they had a,
you know, rented all this space that was now, you know,
on the market for sublease.
But all this was inflated by the fed keeping interest rates,
artificially low there, prop up these bubbles made that real estate bubble very,
very big. And so now it's going to be far more disruptive when it pops,
but it's got a pop, you know, trying to prevent bubbles from deflating,
by trying to blow more air into them, just makes it worse.
Maybe you delay the day of reckoning a little bit,
but you make the day of reckoning,
much worse because now you have additional mistakes that you need to reckon
with. I understand.
So it's essentially like a pull off the band-aid situation and we,
we, we have to have a healing moment.
You have to let things collapse that need to collapse.
That should have been done a long time ago because of
mismanagement.
Yeah.
And you have to understand that we're ripping the bandaid off a wound that the
government inflicted us with in the first place. Yes. Hey, it's a free market.
Never would have screwed us, screwed us up this much.
It was government interference in the free market. That's why, you know,
capitalism gets a bad name. You know, that's why, you know, we talk about on,
uh,
on one of these earlier podcasts about when I went to occupy wall street years
ago, and I went down as Makati park because you had all these young protestors
who were blaming wall street for the bailouts and for the financial crisis.
And I would say, no, it's not wall street that took the bailouts blame,
the government for providing the bailouts for making them available,
blame the federal reserve for funding all this and inflating the bubble. Yes.
But you know, the interesting thing, if I try to do that today,
if I tried to go to one of these protests,
one of these black lives matter protests or any of these,
you think they'd be civil. You think I could do that?
You think I could walk into a crowd of hundreds of people and take the opposite
position and walk out of there, you know, escape.
They would beat you to death a hundred percent. Yeah. So, I mean,
it certainly shows you the loss of civility. It just, you know, 10 years.
It's not just a loss of civility.
It's a loss of opportunity and the loss of a faith
in the system and the future. If we stay on the same path,
that's part of the problem.
It's people don't believe that if we keep going the way we're going,
that things will work out in an, in an equitable,
fair and balanced way. And that's where.
The young people today, the point I wanted to make though, too,
when I went back to America in 1940 was to show that
the American middle class, you know, was real strong.
They could afford to pay for world war II and for,
and to provide for their own families. You know,
because now they keep comparing world war II.
Now because we're running up as much debt. Now,
as we ran up during world war II,
but we had the capacity to pay it back back then, that was the point.
The debt went way down.
Debt to GDP went way down in the decades after world war II,
because Americans had the capacity to pay back what they borrowed to fight the
war. We don't have that capacity now. I mean, the debt's never going to go down.
The debt is going to keep on rising and rising and rising until the dollar
implodes. See that is the real crisis that we're headed for.
It's going to be a collapse in the value of the dollar,
because right now we're printing money, right? And,
and the government is sending it out and people are able to buy stuff with it,
right?
But that's going to come to an end because the world is no longer going
to accept us dollars as the reserve currency, see,
that's the unique privilege that we've enjoyed for several generations now.
And that we've abused to the point where we're going to lose it.
See right now we're able to print money. And we use that money.
We print to buy all sorts of stuff that the rest of the world produces that we
didn't have to produce ourselves. But producing goods requires capital.
It requires labor. It requires land. It requires real resources,
but we get all this stuff for free. We just create money and here you go.
And they send us stuff. And then to make it even better for us,
they take the money that we send them the paper and they loan it right back to
us. At very low rates of interest, they buy our bonds.
They buy our mortgage backed securities.
So Americans get to spend all this borrowed money that they didn't save.
We get to consume all this stuff that we didn't produce.
And we have an artificially elevated standard of living.
We live beyond our means.
That's going to come to an end because foreigners are going to realize that
we're never going to stop printing money.
That the deficits are never going to be brought under control.
That we're going to have QE infinity, 0% interest rates in perpetuity.
And then they're not going to want the dollar anymore.
And then the dollar is going to crash and we're not going to be able to import
anything anymore.
And the only things we're going to be able to buy is this stuff.
We make ourselves, except we don't make much stuff anymore.
So prices are going to go through the roof.
That is the real economic consequences.
And so it's not going to matter that the government sends you a stimulus check.
If you can't buy anything with it,
because the government can't create purchasing power,
they can print all the money they want.
But none of that printed money adds any purchasing power.
They don't grow any food. They don't produce any products, nothing.
They just print money. Right. But.
There is. If, if the government gives money to people,
they will be able to buy things. And people still are making things.
But now, but when the dollars value collapses,
see you can't keep printing trillions and trillions of dollars and expect the
dollars not to lose purchasing power. Right? Right. Because paper money,
all that does is that, um, allows us to divvy up what we produce.
Right? You have all these Americans now who used to be working,
doing something right. They were helping to produce a product.
They were providing a service. And now they're just at home collecting a check,
right? So they're getting money for nothing.
They didn't put anything into the pot,
but now they want to take out of the pot with their money. Well,
there's nothing in the pot, right?
So now the prices of everything in that pot have to go up because there's no,
there's no extra stuff. There's just more buying Peter Aslan. What's been, I'm.
Sorry. As, as an economic expert, what would you have done differently?
If you could have advised this government and we were let's,
let's go back to March when everything was shutting down,
what would you have have advised differently?
Again, first of all, I would allow,
I would allow the states to be responsible for their own policy. So you,
you decide what you want to do in your own state, as far as, you know,
what you want, what businesses you want to close, you know, what,
what you want to do and, and you pay for it.
And if you think that certain businesses or individuals need to get money,
then the state will provide it based on local taxpayers.
But what I would have done on the federal level is I would have dramatically cut
government spending, you know,
even after COVID-19 because government spending is a drain on the
private sector, it's a drag on the economy.
It's the government taking resources away from the private sector where they
would be used efficiently and squatter them in the public sector.
So can I pause you for a second? It's a burden. Can I pause you?
I would have lightened the burden. What.
Would you, you have? What will you have when you say lighten the burden,
what would you have cut? And how would you do that?
When you think about all the different aspects of the government that are
essential, things that need to be in place, what would you.
Have done? Most of, most of the government money is,
is transfer payments where the government takes money from one person and gives
it to somebody else. I mean, the government shouldn't be doing that.
That's not why we have a government in America.
Government is here to secure our rights, protect our property, not steal.
It. Can you explain that? What do you mean by transfer payments?
Well,
that's when the government takes money from one person through taxation and just
hands it to somebody else or now through inflation,
the government just prints money and gives it to people that it thinks needs it,
but that's not what government, but let's look at the PPP. Okay. Let's,
let's look at that. Or the cares act. Right? Okay.
Look at all the damage that the cares act did to the economy.
So first of all,
let's look at the payroll protection plan that everybody wants to brag about.
Right? What a complete fraud. This was. I said from day one,
this would be a assessed pool of fraud. You know,
we found out last week that there were 600 approximately
hedge funds, private equity funds,
asset management companies that got PPP loans.
And they're not even loans because you don't have to pay them back.
So it's free money. Right?
And I could have gotten one of those loans if I wanted to,
I just didn't want to lie to qualify. Apparently, could you stop at 600?
Can you suffer that?
Most people don't know that these hedge funds got this money.
Most people think this money went out to American businesses to keep these
businesses from collapsing because we need restaurants. We need, you know,
movie theaters and all these,
all these various American businesses that we assume this money
went to prevent from collapsing. Explain that.
Please. Yeah. Well, you didn't have to. All you had to do is apply.
And according to the small business administration, as long as the,
the money you asked for was less than 2 million,
they didn't ask any questions because in theory,
you are supposed to need the money, right?
You were supposed to have some disruption.
Like if you ran a restaurant and your restaurant is shut down,
you don't have any revenue. There's nobody eating in your restaurant.
So you have no money coming in. So how do you pay your waiters?
How do you pay your, your, your, your busboys? You have no money.
So the government was like, oh, we'll give you some money.
As long as you don't fire your workers,
we'll give you some money to pay your workers. But a company like mine, right?
My, my, I have two or three companies that I could have taken money from.
And I didn't, but you look at my, like my asset management company,
your Pacific asset management, I'm making more money now than I was before.
COVID.
And I assume that that's the case with most firms that are in my industry.
Can you speak to us? Our revenue was never shut down. How's that possible?
How are you making more money?
Because all I and do is charge fees to manage people's money.
I didn't stop managing their money because of COVID. I mean,
we just keep on managing it and we keep on billing for our feeds. We bill,
every quarter, we weren't even shut down.
Even in Puerto Rico where they were shutting down everything. I mean,
I was considered an essential business financial services. So I, I, you know, I,
people can come to my office,
even though I let a lot of them work from home and remember all of our
customers, they talked to us on the phone. So when I want to talk to a customer,
the customer doesn't drive down to my office. You know,
they just call me on the phone and so get there's no Facebook contact.
So there isn't any disruption.
All of the revenues that the hedge funds were getting at the asset management
companies, all that revenue continued unabated,
not a single job was in jeopardy, right?
All these companies that got government money,
see that the government wants to pretend that these loans saved jobs.
They didn't say these jobs, these jobs were never in jeopardy of being lost.
So all that happened is that it's a windfall, the asset management companies,
the hedge funds,
they got extra money from the government to make their profits even bigger on
opera. The fact that the federal reserve printed all this money,
which inflated asset prices, we charge fees on those assets. And so,
as the fed inflates assets, wall street has inflated fees. We make more money.
It was a double bailout for a lot of these wall street firms.
So that was one of the frauds.
But even in the case where the government is actually giving companies,
giving money to companies that need it right,
that otherwise would have fired their workers. Look, we don't know,
you know what the future demand for restaurants and bars and theaters is going
to be.
I personally believe that demand is going to be diminished for a long time.
It's not just a temporary thing.
I don't think it's going to come back to the way it was.
Especially since the way it was, was a bubble. See,
that's what people don't get. They say,
we want to go back to the way it was before. COVID we can't reflate that bubble.
We have to start spending less. We have to save more.
And that means we can't go out. As often. We need to build up our savings again,
because we've depleted it. So there's going to be less demand for restaurants.
There's going to be less demand for a lot of things.
We have to let these companies downsize. Look at the airlines.
Americans are going to be flying less.
There's no question in my mind that domestic air travel is going to be down for
many, many years, even after COVID is, is cured.
So the airlines have to shrink. They have to lay people off.
They have to be profitable. They have to, you know,
effectively utilize resources.
So to the extent that the government prevents businesses from laying off
workers, that really should be laid off.
They ultimately compromise the viability of those businesses.
And in the long run,
they may end up putting people out of business that would have stayed in
business. Maybe they, you know,
maybe somebody had a hundred employees and maybe they could have downsized to 30
employees. And at least those 30 employees would have a job.
But instead they keep those employees on the payroll for long enough to the
point where the whole company has to go out of business.
And now everybody loses their job.
Now, when you, when you say hedge funds were able to receive PPE,
and you're saying that they did so while they were still earning profits and
there wasn't any diminishment of their income,
why were they able to receive PP PPP?
Well, that's the problem with government programs. There's always fraud.
Like whenever the government is giving out free money,
people try to qualify for it. Now, you know,
you can read the fine print that I know a lot of other people could say, Hey,
you know, Peter has said,
as long as your business was affected by COVID and look, yes,
my business was affected. I mean,
people worked at home that used to work in the office, but you had to,
you had a basically testify or certify that the money was necessary to
support the ongoing operations of your business, which for most of these firms,
it wasn't. And you also had to say that you had no other source of capital,
which again, people were lying, but the government basically said,
if you ask for less than $2 million, we're going to look the other way.
We're not going to vet these loans, but hold on, hold on. These loans,
did they actually say that they're non-recourse, there's no collateral.
So a lot of businesses that were going to fail anyway,
and that we're going to lay off all their workers, took the money.
They're still gonna lay off all their workers,
but now they're not going to have to pay the money back because they're going to
bankrupt their business. And once your business is bankrupt,
even though you fire all your workers,
you're under no obligation to repay the loan. Okay.
Did they actually say that if you asked for less than $2 million,
we're going to look the other way? Like w where are you taking this?
From that,
what it says is we'll assume that you're filing an
honest claim, right? Because they're saying that if you,
if you ask for more than $2 million,
we're going to vet the claim and we're going to take a look at your situation,
but it sat on the small business administration that we'll just assume you're
being honest, right? So if you ask for less than 2 million,
we'll assume you're being honest. Well, the minute they say, oh,
I'm going to lie. That's the problem.
So many people like whenever the government has a program that gets abused.
That's part of the problem with government spending, right?
Everybody tries to qualify, like, just like the unemployment benefits,
this crazy, uh, deal with the, um, uh,
enhanced unemployment benefits.
You have a lot of people now who are being paid twice as much not to work
as they were earning when they were working.
Now you create that kind of incentive. You have a lot of people. Now,
the last thing they want is to go back to work because they're making so much
more money, not working than they were. They were working.
And most of these people, if you have a job where you're making, you know, 10,
$15 an hour, $20 an hour, chances are you don't love your job. I mean,
you're not working because you enjoy what you're doing.
You're working because you need the money. You need to pay the bills. Well,
if you can make the same amount of money or more without working, I mean,
who's not going to go for that. I mean,
I don't blame anybody for not wanting to work.
If the government is paying you more, not to work,
that what your boss was paying you to work. And of course, you know,
there's more than just working. You have to get up early in the morning,
you gotta fight traffic. You know, you, you know, you, you got other expenses.
Maybe you got to put your kids in daycare. You know, you gotta, you know,
laundry, you know, dry, clean your clothes. Women,
women could spend hour in the morning doing their hair, doing makeup.
They don't get paid for that, but they got to do all that, you know,
and add all that to commute time. I mean, so there's a big cost of working.
And then of course you give up all your leisure. When you're at work,
you can't have fun.
The government now has created a situation where people are getting paid to have
fun. So, I mean, how do you end that?
What politician is now going to take this away? Okay.